The cliché of it all is what gets her. The fact that there are literal bloody pearls on the bloody gates, under a perfect blue sky with fluffy clouds floating about. The only thing that doesn’t fit is the desk. It looks like it was ripped from some dentist’s waiting room, glass panels connected to nothing. And a sad looking bloke stuck behind one of three windows. He’s a nondescript little figure, dark brown hair and a black bomber jacket.

“Next,” he says, though there’s no queue, just her. He sounds bored, with an accent she can’t quite place. American.

She steps forward. The floor beneath her shimmers with ethereal light, and squeaks under her trainers.

“Name?”

Screw that. She takes a deep breath. “Is this a dream or a hallucination or… I don’t know – something like that?” Not that she’s ever known she was dreaming before, nor is she prone to hallucinations. Still, it can’t hurt to ask.

“No. You’re dead. No, this isn’t being caused by lack of oxygen to the brain, you’ve made it fully to the other side, and no, you can’t go back. Name?”

“Uh, Alice? Alice B. Clarkson. So is this like – I mean, I wasn’t expecting it to be… Christian.”

He taps away at his all-white box of a computer and squints. “Clarence, Clark, Cl - Clarkson. There you are. Hm. Ok, I’ve got you under atheist, subcategory: pedant. And the ‘B’ really doesn’t stand for anything?” He shakes his head a little before grabbing a form, sliding it under the glass divider. “Alright, fill that in as best you can.”

“I don’t. Have a pen?”

A biro appears.

The first question: ‘From 1 to 10, where 1 is an abiding and unforgivable grudge, and 10 is perfect, harmonious forgiveness, how do you feel about the following people and incidents?

1. Thomas Morrison for biting you at your third birthday party, on April 3rd, 1999.
2. Alexander Clarkson for refusing to buy you ice cream on April 20th, 1999.’

And so on and so forth. She flicks through.

‘Rank the following in the order in which you would choose to live with them in a shared housing situation: Lilian McCarthy, Claire Simons, Aisha Hassan…’

“What is this?” she asks.

The man at the desk sighs. “Eternal bliss? We need to know who to house you near. It’s really not that complicated, just put the names in order.”

“OK,” says Alice. “But I was – am? – an atheist. I don’t – I lost Pascal’s Wager, right? I’m headed downstairs. Right?” She taps the pen, doesn’t quite commit to picking it up, lets it roll in the little well under the divider.

“I mean if you want to, then sure, I can probably sort that.” He goes back to his computer, hits a few keys. F, three times, then I. Then a random assortment of letters, quicker than she can follow, but not spelling out anything, at least as far as she can tell. She can’t see the screen, but there’s no glow on his face. “Okay, it’ll be a bit of a wait. No one’s at reception at the moment but I’ve sent out a ping. It’s a bit empty, and they’re not expecting you, but the team can probably sort you out with somewhere to stay.”

“That’s –” not right, surely? “Dude,” she says. Puts the form down. “I lost.”

He straightens up, looks at her properly for the first time. “Yeah, you did. Turns out it was all real, irrespective of anything you believed or didn’t or anything you ever did. And who’s going to benefit from torturing you for eternity?”

She rubs a heel against the squeaky floor. “I –”

“No one, right? Not me, not you, not the big guy. You can’t go back, that’s the point. You’ve gone down a one-way road. You’ll never be able to tell anyone, ‘I was wrong! It’s all real!’ who doesn’t already know. The wager’s done. So you might as well come in, because why not?”

“Right,” she says. “And then it turns out this is actually the bad place, and hell is other people, and really the perfect torturer is me, myself?”

“That sounds like a lot of work, to be honest with you. I mean, most people tend to just muddle on by, even if things aren’t perfect, that’s all of Earth.”

She finally scoops up the pen. It’s odd – smooth, and there’s text, or something that at least is making an honest attempt to look like text. Right where a brand name should be engraved on the lid. But it’s not. There’s no real letters, just – just squiggles in shapes that letters maybe could make in an alphabet gone slightly to the left.

She blinks and it’s gone, leaving behind plain, unmarred blue plastic. She shrugs it off, and brings it to the page, but before she can even start to write, a 4 appears next to Thomas Morrison’s name.

“Um,” she says. Tries to cross it out. Nothing happens.

The gatekeeper sighs. Again. “Yes?”

“I didn’t –”

“Ah. Apologies, cause and effect should be working properly now.”

“Right,” she says, and this time she can actually scribble out the ‘4’, replace it with a 3.5. The pen behaves itself as she goes through childhood grudges and ex boyfriends and arguments she had in Reddit comment sections. It’s a lot.

“I have a question,” she says, as she rates whether she was attracted to several different individuals, and how she feels about them now.

“I live to serve,” says the clerk.

“How did I die?”

“Drunk driver,” he says. “Not your fault. The funeral was well attended. If you want to see it once you’re set up, someone can track down a recording for you.”

She doesn’t remember it. Doesn’t – where was she before she died? Edinburgh, surely, working on her thesis. Failure points in solar panels. Useful, as she had claimed in her application. But there’s no money in academia. She’s never exactly planned to stay, as she explained herself to her mother. Just to write something.

Still. For all that her life, in hindsight, feels like an exercise in futility, damn whatever bastard decided to jellify her against the roadside.

The clerk pokes at the computer again, as she stands there for a moment. Then she goes back to the form, which appears to have already finished the section she was on and moved on to the next. She clears her throat. No more ink appears.

“So. God’s real?”

“Mmhmm.”

“Evolution?”

“Last I heard, the big guy wishes he came up with it before doing everything by hand.”

“Okay so someone came up with, I don’t know, human genitalia and childhood genetic diseases?” She glances up from the form. “Though I’m sure I’m not the first person to mention the problem of suffering.”

He shrugs. “It’s a reasonable question, though not one with a satisfying answer. I mean, I asked the same thing when I got up here, pretty sure everyone does when they realize it won’t get them kicked out the door.”

“So? What’s the unsatisfying answer?”

“For the genitalia? Extreme jerryrigging. It’s like code; if you take a busy, overworked programmer, obviously you’re going to wind up with an inefficient mess of a solution where everything gets routed together. Can’t sort out temperature control? Guess we’ll just use air to cool the gonads and hope no one decides to kick them.”

He rolls his eyes. “You know, Christianity was 90% right, but they definitely overshot with the whole infallible thing. Plenty of bugs in the code that the big guy’s too lazy to fix.”

“Childhood cancer is a bug in the code?” Alice stares at him. “Not to be Epicurean about it, but that’s – you all seem pretty omnipresent and omnipotent to me, so –”

“Ah well, finite suffering for eternal paradise isn’t the worst trade-off. As a ratio of your total existence, that blip on Earth is infinitesimal, in the most literal sense of the word. It all comes out in the wash.”

“Right,” says Alice, and finds that she dislikes all of this immensely. “I think I will go downstairs, actually, if that’s alright?”

He blinks. “Why?”

She slides the form under the glass and steps back, looking around. The clouds drift in a clockwise circle above her head, though there’s… something about them.

She stares closer. There’s one, the perfect cloud. A normal distribution with lumps in all the right places. A few others, the sorts of clouds made for debates over whether they’re shaped like cows or castles. And then there’s one that’s identical to the first, just reflected over the y-axis and maybe a bit smaller.

Pascal’s Wager. She’s called this asshole’s bluff once already, might as well try what’s already worked once.

“Perhaps I just reject the morality of your system. That’s allowed, isn’t it?”

He stands up, walks out from behind the desk and around to her. Brushes some of his gingery hair out of his face.

“Kiddo, there’s no one else down there. We could arrange some eternal torment, if it’s really what you want, but it’ll take a while to set up and you’ll just be hanging around by yourself for ages. Why not just go on through, we’ll set you up somewhere to live, you’ll see your grandma again. It’ll be perfect.”

“How did I die?” she asks, again. “Because last I remember, I was hosting office hours.”

The desk looks different now.

She squints at it for a second, before it clicks. She couldn’t see her reflection in the glass before. But there she is. And is the computer a different computer?

She blinks. No, it’s the same old white box.

He looks down at her. “Heart attack in your sleep. You wouldn't."

"You said drunk driver." There are, she realizes, four clouds, up to transformation. They're just copies, stretched or shrunk or flipped. "Before, you said it was a drunk driver."

His face goes still for a second, and then he smiles. "Of course. It was traumatic. You wouldn't remember it. Remarkable what the psyche can do to protect itself."

The air suddenly fills with the furious reek of burning rubber, stinging at her nostrils, catching on her palms, on the cuts on her palms as though they’ve skidded over something rough.

She breathes, she tries to breathe but it’s rough and burbling and there’s something wet coming up her throat. Get it out, she needs to get it out, she coughs, but it’s not a cough. Her throat spasm, her lungs hitch but there’s no air, there’s no air there’s nothing coming through she can’t breathe she can’t breathe her heart is shrieking in her useless throat and ears and she can’t

Breathe.

She breathes.

She shakes.

“Like I said,” says the clerk. “The brain doesn’t like to remember trauma.” He holds out a bottle of water that definitely wasn’t in his hand a moment ago. Like the pen, there’s a label on it that could be any of the brands she’s ever seen, but isn’t quite any of them. But she takes it anyway. Drinks. It tastes like water, which is good enough.

Her hand’s shaking, but she’s got to keep her head on straight. “I still want to head downstairs. How long until they’re ready for me?”

He stares at her. The bottle in her hand goes from ribbed, to smooth, back to ribbed again.

“How long?”

“You are aware that you’re signing up for an eternity far worse than what you just experienced?” he asks, flatly.

“Yes.” Does her best to sound confident.

He stares at her. She stares at him. The same four clouds circle overhead. And then he tilts his head, and something sharp sets in behind his eyes. She feels, for a moment, unable to so much as twitch. Like he’s turned her to stone. Then, smoothly he does up a button on his coat, gives a perfect, customer service smile. Bored. Painted on.

“Well, we aim to please. Now, just to be clear, if you go downstairs there’s no coming back up. It’s another one way road.”

“That’s what I assumed. I still want to go.” The water bottle is cool against her hand and she rubs at its ridges. “Now, please.”

He circles back around the desk and sits. “We value informed consent here.”

Her nerves seize all at once. Her legs promptly decide they no longer function as legs and deposit her on the gently glowing linoleum as she spasms, convulses. It’s beyond pain, it’s beyond – her brain, she can feel, repeatedly trying for the off switch but the power stays on.

She twitches over and over in agony that intensifies from impossible to incomprehensible, more than can even be screamed out. The bottle’s gone somewhere, rolled away. She crushed it, maybe, in that first collapse inward.

“It’s been thirty seconds,” says the clerk from the desk. “Halfway through.”

And she lies on that smooth, plastic floor and she suffers.
