There is a box of lychees sitting pretty next to his doormat. Half empty already, with a note on top. He bends down and picks up the paper – very familiar handwriting, though it’s much more legible than her physics homework tends to be. He still hasn’t looked at those mock exams of hers; he’ll have to do it tonight before bed.

‘Mum got these organic and they’re going off – thought you might enjoy! x Lydia’.

He smiles. That’s very kind of them. And Miranda splashed out for organic. European, even! What a luxury. And it saves him a trip to the shop. His smile fades a little once he picks up the fruit, which are definitely on the turn. Sagging, with skin browned and bruised. No mould, of course, Miranda’s a bit of an obsessive there, but still far from appetizing. But the intention was generous, and besides, he’s got a use for them. He scoops them up.

Pressing his thumb to the scanner, he heads into his flat and straight into the kitchen, where he grabs a plate from the cupboard and tips the fruit out onto it. Tweezers, he needs tweezers. None in his pocket, of course there aren’t. He grabs some from the bathroom, before returning to the unappealing mound. He picks one up, turns it around, sets it aside. Continues. Until – there: he reaches in and plucks a dead insect off the side of a fruit. Oxygen deprivation before it was packed, nothing chemical. That’s the organic promise!

He places the bug on a saucer and keeps going. By the end, he has eight little bodies on his late grandmother’s fine china, all in a row. He should take them now, but – oh, a moment of self indulgence won’t make a difference. The Europeans are clearly less aggressive in their cleaning, this is much better pickings than he gets from his usual grocer but they’ll have cost at least thirty percent more. He squints at the plate. Five ants, those he finds frequently; two white larval things, which he doesn’t think are maggots, though what would he know; and what surely must be a caterpillar. That’s a first. He taps the table to turn it on.

“Black and yellow fuzzy caterpillar. Small.”

Leanne’s voice chirps in. “It seems that you’re trying to find information about caterpillars. Caterpillars are the larval stage of butterflies, and historically were found wherever butterflies were –”

“Skip,” he instructs. “Just tell me about small black and yellow fuzzy caterpillars. What species?”

It buffers for a second. “That sounds like it might be a small tortoiseshell caterpillar. They were the national butterfly of Denmark, and used to live throughout Eurasia. They used to feed on nettles, before the soil preservation act of –”

“End.” He turns off the table.

Once the screen’s dark again, he takes a moment with the caterpillar, turns it around in the tweezers. It’s less colourful in real life than it looked in Leanne’s generated model. Still. Remarkable. It joins the others.

He glances at the fruit. Perhaps he should have one, if only so that when he next runs into Lydia and Miranda in the hall, he can truthfully say that they were eaten. But then he’d be lying and saying they were tasty, and the whole knot would only get more tangled. He leaves them there instead, and takes his small collection of insects through to his home office.

When he toured this apartment six months ago, the property manager had all but locked him in this room, begging him to appreciate the floor to ceiling windows, the speaker system, the modern aircon. The pitch had worked; he’d moved in two weeks later. Now it’s warm, airless and dark. Blackout blinds keep out the evening sun, every crack or hole is sealed up, save one, and the sound system has not been used in months. He opens the door quickly and shuts it behind himself again just as fast. Winces at the currents it stirs up.

“Buddy?” he calls. Gives his eyes a second to adjust before scanning the walls. Bare – the door must have scared him. He switches on the dimmed light before bending down to check the crack between the built-in corkboard and the ledge. A few dark legs draw themselves even tighter in. “There you are. Got you some dinner – well, technically Lydia did.” He begins placing the dead insects into the gap. “I’ve told you about her, the girl down the hall? My student? Used to have our lessons in here, maybe you saw her then. Between you and me, she’s not getting her A, but don’t tell her mother that or I’ll be out of a job.”

He empties the plate, and settles down onto the bare floor. Keeps his eyes fixed on the space and doesn’t move an inch. Seconds drag on. Minutes. And then the small, dark shape begins to shift itself. He holds his breath. It darts forward through its narrow channel to the dead insects.

“There,” he says, without quite meaning to. A brief pause, but the small jerks and spasms of feeding time continue as he watches. It’s hard to tell just which of his offerings are tonight’s meal, not unless he were to shine a torch in there, but that would be far too invasive. But by the time Buddy shifts back, there’s still plenty of indistinguishable insectoid lumps left. That’s good, that’s a store. One of Buddy’s hairy legs briefly flicks out from under the board as he moves himself around, presumably settling himself down for a nap.

It is a shame he’s not doing it out on the board. There’s a sketchpad on the rarely used desk that he’s filled with drawings of the low flat body, the eight splayed legs. He’s a handsome spider, is his Buddy. But apparently one who has decided that today he’ll be doing his best impression of a slightly spiky dark blob.

He stands. Ten years ago, he’d have hunched for hours but time, ah. Never enough of it. It’ll be a new century in a few months, first time in a hundred years!

Less caution is needed in leaving. Buddy’s hidden away where he feels safest, there’s no real worry about scaring him. He’ll stay there for a while now with no need to hunt. Back out to the kitchen to feed himself. Not with the lychees, he’s got Greek left from Tuesday. He reheats it and eats, as the fruit stare at him from the counter.

Once he’s done, meal finished and tidied, they’re still at it. Two can play at that game – he looks right back at them. He doesn’t want them. And he rather doubts that Buddy does either. He picks one up, the firm skin yielding under the slightest pressure. Maybe he could finally become his mother, stick them in sugar water in a can. The sort of sweet treat that they used to eat in heatwaves.

The fruit lands back on the plate with a heavy squelch. It bursts open on impact, flesh spilling out from a slit running up and down the brown. He shudders. Even though he knows that he was only touching its skin, he still wipes his hand on his napkin. It smells sickly sweet, far worse than he would have expected it to when it was all held in. It’s the sort of smell that would have sent his mother into a frenzy of bagging up everything sugary, wiping down every surface for fear of attracting ‘bugs’.

No risk of that these days. Not even then. Sure, they were technically rural, but he was six when the hygiene laws were passed and there hadn’t been agriculture in the area for, god, thirty years? But she was never so vindicated as the one summer the neighbours had roaches and had to ring up the bureau and have the whole place sealed up for a week. And when they came round to check on his childhood home, there was not one to be found.

He’ll decide what to do with the lychees later.

He fishes Lydia’s mock exam out of his bag. Her writing is characteristically illegible, she’s lost a quarter of the marks to the grader not being able to read her damn work. But she clearly has been paying attention in their sessions – got her acceleration-velocity-time triangle all in order. So that’s something. Progress.

Dawn comes, as it does, while he’s halfway to the bus stop. Already he’s pre-empting it out the door, soon he’ll be arriving at school before the sun shows up. But so it goes, so it goes. He pauses right before scanning on; he forgot to bin the fruit. Could turn back, be late. But he’s got a class second period, his year nine, no time for that. A day won’t make a difference, he’ll just air out the room later. Instead he slinks to his usual seat, past the usual faces who share this daily pilgrimage. They’re all far too used to each other to bother acknowledging it.

The day goes. His older students are worried about exams, his younger students about the promise of future exams, and all of them are desperately trying to show that they don’t care. He’s never quite clear on if he used to be able to connect with them. Definitely, he used to be more invested. But there are teachers who can ‘chat’. Who joke with their classes. He’s sure he’s never been quite able to do that.

Buddy needs more food, so he heads to the local grocer in the evening, his usual organic supplier. Ryan’s there today, for the first time in a few weeks. She waves him over.

“How’re things?” she asks.

He nods. “I haven’t seen you?”

“Ah,” she says, leaning against the counter. He waits for her to continue. “I told you about my mother?”

He’s not sure. “No.”

“She’s sick,” says Ryan. “And my sister’s being useless, so I’ve been looking after her. It’s a whole mess.”

He glances at the aisles back. But he’s in this conversation now. “I’m sorry.”

“Ah, well. Your parents still around?”

He shakes his head.

She copies him. “Sorry to hear that. My dad died a few years back, the old bastard.”

He’s misinterpreted, he realizes. But explaining that feels fraught. “My mother never left Birmingham,” he says instead, since that could mean anything. “I don’t go back there much.”

She smiles. “You don’t miss home? I mean, you’re always in here by yourself. No partner? No kids?”

He could explain it to her. She’s probably fifteen years younger than him, no sense of that world he was born in. He’s given Lydia the same speech — Gen Z, Gen Alpha. Then the last generation. None of them planned on children. Of course he became a teacher. Of course Miranda needs to succeed as a mother. But Ryan seems desperate for a chat, unlike twelve year old Lydia who’d wanted nothing less than to consider her mother’s personhood. They’d be stuck on that for hours, and he’s no desire to be psychoanalysed by his grocer. So instead he says, “I didn’t really want that. I should get on?”

She smiles again. “Sure.”

He rushes off towards the back room. Turns briefly. She’s there, at the checkout counter by herself. This shop is perfectly busy plenty of the time, it’s just late and it’s near closing and it’s just random chance that he’s the only one here. But.

Anyway. He brushes past the shelves of locally grown hydroponics to the rather pricier Californian origin organic ‘produce’. Though compared to the French-grown lychees, it’s probably borderline affordable.

The fruit is meant to be in boxes. This section is meant to have shelves, stacked up with plastic tubs, the very ones that the fruit was in when the all natural insecticide was applied. Sixteen quid for a box of strawberries, or twenty dollars. Though Ryan always kicks up a fuss if people don’t use pounds, despite what GBUS says.

The point isn’t that. The point is that the fruit does not come in bins. It has never before been sold like that, by the gram, where he’d have to dig through mounds of the stuff to try to find anything useful while everyone watched – while everyone – the – he’s not doing anything illegal, he just – this isn’t what he comes here for.

Ryan has followed him. “Need some help?” she asks.

“No - it’s - you’ve changed the layout.” His voice cracks. “Why have you changed the layout?”

“New rules for imported groceries."

“What do you mean?” he asks.

She crosses over to join him at the back of the shop. “The Americans said the Aussies were ‘spreading pests’, so now everything coming in has to be checked individually. It’s a bloody nightmare, completely messing with my shipments. And customs are charging an arm and a leg for the privilege of bruising my apples. God bless bureaucracy.”

This is – oh no. “But this stuff’s from the States?”

“Dunno what to tell you,” she says. “It’s this Renew lot, they lobbied to make it all imports including from the US.”

“Why?” He knows. Of course he does. The decouple movement, the Euro-nationalists, there’s plenty they can get done when they agree. But they weren’t meant to do something like this.

He looks into the bins of perfectly clean fruit. “It’s everything?”

She sighs. “Look, if you’re worried about the cost hikes, the local stuff’s not impacted at all.”

“It’s not about the money, it’s –” He could tell her. About Buddy, about how hard it is finding anything he can eat. But – Buddy’s not a bee, or a butterfly, or Miranda and Lydia’s hyper-allergenic cat. “I just don’t like the way hydroponics tastes. It’s bland.”

“Then what’s the problem?” She grabs an apple from the top of the tub of pink ladies and sticks it in his hand. “Try it. On me. They can’t wash out flavour, promise.”

He nods. “Of course.”

No point in buying anything, so he doesn’t. He eats his apple on the way home and tries not to panic. There are other shops, there are other options. He can figure something out. Surely.

Once, he read that London was the most surveilled city in the world. If it were ever true, it isn’t now. Hasn’t been for sixty-odd years. But sometimes he feels like there are eyes everywhere, looking for any sign that he’s not right, not normal. Not happy. There’s CCTV on the front of his apartment building, in the lift and the staircase, in case he wanted to avoid it that way, in the hall. His doorbell’s a camera, so’s everyone else’s. The company who made his access scanner had a class action lawsuit six months ago for selling customer data. The whole world is watching him go home. But inside – oh, inside is his. He can drop the apple core on the floor and face no consequences for littering, he can lean his head against the wall and yell and have no one rubberneck or pretend to care. He can go into Buddy’s room and sit there quietly until he comes out and crawls up and down the corkboard in search of something that isn’t coming back.
