“Most people have many memories of their mothers. I flatter myself by asserting that I have more. A lifetime of claustrophobically close proximity, as we circled Great Britain. We have lived every moment together – every teenage argument, every moment of grief or joy. I struggle to think of any memory where my mother is not there.

“But when I think of her, I always remember a throwaway comment some twenty years ago. Of course, I am no longer the child of back then, trying to get her attention as she stared at a sunset while we pulled out of Fort William. The sky was always at its best when leaving, she told me. It didn’t make much sense at the time, since we always seemed to be leaving somewhere, but I think the adult that I am now understands a little better.”

Charlotte fumbled for her water glass and took a sip. There was more on the page, the litany of thanks, a string of stupid anecdotes that she found she couldn’t bear the thought of saying. Fuck it all. She set down the cup, spilling a few drops onto the paper.

“May the sky be beautiful for her now, too.”

“Hear, hear!”

She wasn’t sure who said it, but it was enough of an excuse to dip her head and step away. To take the shovel and tip dirt onto her mother’s casket. Her aunt did the same, then that was all the family done and they could all shuffle back towards the fleet of cabs waiting to take them to the station.

They loaded up onto the reception car, which had been set up while they’d been out. She found herself by Maggie, handing out cups of over-milked tea to a crowd which was two thirds fellow passengers and one third random family friends she’d met maybe once in her life. They all knew who she was, of course.

“She was a great woman,” said someone-or-other. “I am so, so sorry for your loss.”

She handed him a cup of tea. “Thank you.”

“So.” Bertie leaned up against the table. “Will the Countess Denham be taking her mother’s seat in the Lords?”

She shoved some tea into his hands. “You just want someone to entertain you.”

“Not an answer, my dear.”

Under them, the train sagged before pulling itself into motion. The passengers barely moved. She reached out to steady the table before the mugs could fall off.

“Imo will have my head if I don’t.” She glanced up, trying to work out where the Baroness of Hexham had gotten to. There – a grey-streaked head bobbing in the midst of a crowd down the far end of the carriage. “It’s something to do, I suppose.”

“What a patriotic way to think about it. Now come. You can’t hide over here all afternoon.”

“I’m hardly hiding!” she protested, but let him pull her into the crowd anyway.

Fucking condolences. A mob of grievers and well-wishers, a parliament in black, pecking at her skin with their half-baked stories about a woman who couldn’t give a damn about any of them, even on the rare occasions that she managed to pull herself out of her own head and notice that there was a world around her. But that was the speech that she chucked out of the window a hundred miles ago – ‘No one was more disappointed by my mother than me. Now she’s dead. God damn it.’ That would have shut them all up.

“Lottie!” Ah, shit. “Oh, dear girl.” Imo grabbed her arm and pulled her into her huddle.

They all looked at her. Half people she’d known all her life, half strangers, all staring at her with their stupid, faux-sad eyes. She did her best to school her face into an appropriate expression of grief.

“Oh, my dear,” said Imo again, patting at her shoulder. “What a hard day it has been for all of us. But you’re bearing up so admirably.”

She nodded, dutifully.

“Have you met my cousins?” she asked.

Charlotte had. Probably. She dug back through a poorly stacked heap of memories of times they’d stopped in Northumberland. “Of course,” she said. “William and Michael Percy. Thank you both for coming. It’d mean a lot to her to know you were here.”

“Of course,” said the one on the left. “She was a great woman.”

She’d hated the Percy family. Hated anyone who’d managed to hold onto their great houses, whose family trusts had emerged any more intact than her own. But let her peers call her a ‘great woman’, let her Wikipedia article declare her the eighth Marquess of Denham and have very little else to say, and let the rest of the world continue on happily without ever concerning itself over her existence.

“I know.”

They stood there for a moment in utter, awkward silence – made infinitely worse by the chatter that bounced up and down the rest of the carriage.

“You know,” said the one on the right, “Michael was actually talking to Imo about joining you all for a few years.”

“Oh?” said Charlotte, grateful for the conversation starter, and to have learned which was Michael and which William.

“It just seems rather an adventure,” said Michael.

“Oh, it’s wonderful.” Imo patted her shoulder. “Wouldn’t you agree, Lottie?”

“Such an adventure,” she agreed.

“I mean, I understand the role of the high speed network but really this does just seem like a much more civilized mode of travel. The two hardly have anything in common.” He glanced upwards out of the window, to where the HS5 track made its way through the sky. “You just can’t see anything from up there. No, if you really want to learn a place, you must travel it slowly. Your eulogy reminded me of that, you know?”

“It did?” asked Charlotte.

“You have to be somewhere to leave it. Properly be somewhere, not zip by.”


[]


“Order!” Imo smacked her hammer against her gavel. There was no notable change in the quiet conversations dotting the room, but she seemed satisfied enough and sat down.

Charlotte leaned over to Bertie. “Is she pretending to be a judge?”

“She believes it lends her noble Ladyship gravitas,” he whispered back.

Charlotte considered that for a second, then shrugged.

“Bet I can set them all off,” he said, grinning like an arse when she glanced at him.

“The floor is now open for questions,” said Imo.

Bertie stood. “My Lords, good afternoon. Once again I find myself obliged to raise the question of the luncheon menu. May I ask whether the noble Lord, the Minister for the Kitchens, might enlighten the House as to when we may expect some new options?”

A chorus of ‘Hear, hear!’ rose up. On the other side of the carriage, Horace McWilliams, Earl of Glencairne, stood. “My Lords, I thank the noble Lord for raising this matter for the sixth sitting in succession. As I informed your Lordships last week, discussions with the kitchen staff are ongoing, and I shall of course report to the House when there is any development.”

“No one likes the lasagna, my Lords!” someone called from the benches.

“My Lords, I am aware that—”

“So change it!”

Another wave of voices rang out as Bertie sat smugly down beside her.

“They’ve been talking about this for five weeks?” she called out, raising her voice over the hubbub.

“Eleven, my Lady!” he shouted back. “I only joined in a month ago.”

The train jolted as it rolled round a corner, and the mace slid from the table in front of Imo. She rose, retrieved it with great dignity, and set it back in its place before sinking down again, her head in her hands.

Eventually she grabbed her hammer again, and smacked it back against the gavel. “Enough!”

The lords took back to their benches, though not without a considerable amount of glaring across the train aisle.

“My Lords, the only business before the House is the Second Reading of the House of Lords Abolition Bill, as brought from the Commons in the year of our Lord 2063, and resubmitted annually thereafter. I call upon the noble Lord, the Earl of Rochester.”

Rochester rose. “My Lords, I fear that once again we gather in dutiful repetition, as we have done each Session for the past forty years, to consider whether we ought to abolish ourselves. Your Lordships will recall that last Session, and the Session before that, and indeed every Session preceding those, we resolved that, however desirable our abolition might appear in principle, the practicalities rendered it most inconvenient.”

The mace fell again. Imo stared at it, and didn’t move. “My Lords, the Question is that the House of Lords Abolition Bill be read a Second time. As many as are of that opinion say ‘Content’.”

Bertie, next to her, said, “Content.” No one else did.

“Of the contrary, ‘Not Content’.”

A much louder chorus chimed up in response. Charlotte said nothing. There did not seem to be much point.

The clerk stood. “Contents, 1. Not-Contents, 97. So the Not-Contents have it.”

“The Bill is, accordingly, rejected. Business being concluded, the House stands adjourned until tomorrow, when we shall resume with the same Bill.”

Everyone stood and shuffled off towards the dining car. “Is that it?” asked Charlotte.

Bertie shrugged. “Imo clearly wasn’t on form today. A shame – usually there’s much more fighting.”
