I’m a good person, I promise. I didn’t say that to the Brownies as I crossed their picket line, but I did feel bad about it. Not so bad as to want to spend any more time letting them sling mud my way than I had to. But bad nonetheless. The Wizard Andrew Macallister was not someone, I suspect, well versed in opening his own door. He stood awkwardly, blocking the entryway, staring at me for a very long moment while the six Brownies and four Ghillie Dhus outside kicked their protest up another notch.

I smiled at him. “Hi. Dana Ross.” Stuck out my hand for him to look dumbfounded at.

“Ah,” he said at last. “The help.”

“That’s me!” I kept it light and cheerful as a glob of mud smacked into the back of my head. He still didn’t move as it made its wet way down my neck. I’d worn the nice white shirt that Chris bought me for job interviews, back in The Day, and I could feel the collar sogging against my skin.

Finally he worked out how to step aside. I wasted no time getting inside the white walls of his entrance hall, and he wasted none getting the door shut behind me. The mud fell and hit the floorboards.

Andrew Macallister had the professorial look down. Slightly overlarge black suit, chalk dust on the cuffs, and an unnaturally full head of grey hair.

I took pity on him. “Why don’t you show me where you keep your cleaning stuff? I’ll get that sorted before your guests arrive.”

“Supplies?” he asked.

Brownies. Right.

“Where’s the loo?” I tried.

He pointed me to the toilet, where I took a moment to wash my shirt. They’d managed to get mud into my hair as well; I wound up with almost my whole head in the sink, before all the brown was washed out of my dull orange curls. There was some sort of noise cancelling spelled into the walls of the house. None of the shouts made their way in. Even the entryway was perfectly calm as I took some loo paper to wipe up the mess my entrance and the Brownies' good aim had made.

It was the kitchen of a wizard who wanted you to know it. Why have a fridge when you can pull the edge of an arctic gale through exposed shelving? The only thing out of place was me in my nylon tights. That was the problem with ancestral traditions, I supposed. Sometimes they decide they want their milk organic. Or whatever Macallister’d managed to do to upset them.

I grabbed the boxes of M&S canapes, and started laying them out on the antique-looking trays he had set up on his counter. The wizard himself was through the double doors, arms full of bottles of champagne that he plonked on the table in his much-too-large-even-for-Clifton garden. He had a whole bloody forest back there. That explained the Ghillie Dhus, I supposed.

It might have been a few years since my teenage stint at a catering company, but I fancy I did a decent enough job as a one-man band once his gaggle of fellow academics materialized. They got to enter through the back gate, where I greeted them with champagne and cocktail sausages. And once they were all tipsily gathered around a glyph-filled textbook, arguing over the most efficient way to do some exercise on levitation theory, I turned to the washing up.

A few of the guests drifted inside once or twice seeking refills, or the loo, or both. The fourth of them stopped briefly behind me. I kept washing up as something ice cold slipped into my trouser pocket. And then she was gone, and all that remained was the chill biting into my thigh. It was impossible to get a sense of shape from just the way it pressed – at least a little bit pointy – but no.

There was nothing in my pocket.

I kept washing up.

About ten minutes later, they moved the party inside.

“Oh, let me dry.” One of the PhD students, the one whose textbook it was, grabbed a dishcloth.

“Thanks,” I said and smiled at him.

“Where do the glasses go?” asked another, reaching for the one in his hand. “Gimme that, Pranav.”

Pranav. Well, that saved me seeking him out.

The grownup academics seemed content to let them pay their servile dues, keeping their argument going around the kitchen table instead.

“Did you work out the answer?” I asked Pranav.

“Yeah, but they’re stuck on whether it’s more efficient to magnetize your object, or mess with its gravity.”

“Magnetic enough to spontaneously levitate?” I asked, casting an eye at the gathered arcanists, who had started drawing on one of the boxes for the champagne glasses. The silverware had looked like actual silver when I saw it earlier, but that could just as easily be bespelled stainless steel.

He grinned at me, toothy and lopsided. “It won’t work. I tried it a few days ago. Prof Macallister just doesn’t want to admit I’m right.”

“Right about?” I smiled back.

“You just put it on the memory of an object. Boom, problem solved. But then Professor Tangible would have to let me write my thesis on the permanent, so –”

“Uh huh,” I said. My leg was getting numb where the pointy bit was digging in.

“Pranav!” called Professor Tangible. Good. He’d kept an eye on his student.

He turned away to look at his teacher, who was setting the now scribble-covered box atop a spell circle embedded in his countertop.

“This is why we work with what nature prov – ah.”

The cutlery drawer, to my right, burst open and about half the forks and six-odd butter knives went flying out. The cardboard box did indeed levitate for the briefest of moments as they stabbed into it. Then the whole sorry ensemble crashed to the floor, bringing two of the glasses with it.

“Alright,” I said. “Everyone stay still. Where’s your dustpan and – right.”

I left them pretending to be statues, while I went back into the hall in search of something to use other than my bare hands. While he did have an understairs cupboard, the Brownies had turned it into a bit of a hangout spot. I couldn’t imagine the polyester beanbag was Macallister’s, but the quilt atop it was made of J-cloths and yellow dusters, and they’d jury-rigged something together from the guts of a vacuum cleaner. Henry’s smiling face had been cracked in two to reveal the motor that served as his metal heart. The hose burrowed its way out below the floorboards; presumably a way to get some air into this airless cupboard. But in his current state, he was entirely useless to me.

I regretted it. Even as I did it, I regretted it. It was for a good cause. In my own way, I would be helping them. In the end. But I took that quilt into the kitchen where Macallister was scribbling over the symbols he’d written on the box, and I used the scissors that were now no longer stuck to it to unpick the thread around one of the dusters and I used it to pick up the glass, to wipe up the champagne, before wrapping the whole mess in the rest of the quilt, and threw it all in the bin.

The party was over. That much was clear. Macallister shooed off the students into the garden where they vanished through whatever gate they’d entered in by.
