Dunnest Smoke

Among the things we are busy not talking about: the chicken in the fridge has gone off and is starting to smell; the dog’s limp has gotten worse but no one wants to make the call on amputating versus putting her down; and on the forecast this morning it said that the clouds came down three metres today, an increase on the steady two-point-eight of the last week.

Mum and I went up the hill today, first time she’s been out in days – add to the list: Mum has not been getting out enough and is starting to develop bedsores – and the top was covered. Few weeks ago, you could see over the Bristol Channel to Wales. But there were photos of the top of the clouds from skyscrapers on the BBC this morning, sunlit gold and pink. Hope, apparently, sunny blue skies if we can only hold on.

Most days, my dad sits in the kitchen with his tablet, filling the room with some arse or other going on about trans people. He calls me over. “Frankie, have a look at this.”

“You shouldn’t watch that stuff,” I tell him every time. Try to show as little reaction as possible.

“Always so serious,” he says. Then he turns it off. He’s got what he wanted, now he’ll get back to the crossword.

In the background, Grandpa sits in the corner. Can never tell if his hearing aid’s in or not, but that’s how he likes it. After all, another thing we never mention: he and Dad can’t stand each other. Grandpa used to play footie — now he’s an eighty-four-year-old conspiracy nut who wants to open all our eyes to the truth. Meanwhile Dad’s one YouTube Short from a full-on three-quarter-life crisis and doesn’t much like the vision he’s getting of his future. Deals with it by making it obvious he thinks Grandpa’s an old bigot (we also don’t talk about the pot meet kettle of it all).

“Frankie,” says Grandpa, “do you have a minute?”

Of course. “Of course.”

“Did you get my email?” he asks. Taps his tablet. “I sent you an article.”

The answer is yes, but I gave up at the headline: ‘Who Controls the Weather? How Governments Are Playing God With the Atmosphere.’

“Is it a pressing matter?” whispers Dad.

I give him a sideways glance. “I wouldn’t say that wisdom descended from above.”

Grandpa shakes his head. “You’ll have to repeat that, Frankie.”

“Oh, sorry.” I say. “It wasn’t anything interesting.”

He sits there for a moment. “Well, you ought to read the article.”

I glance behind me. Dad’s smirking, obviously. Best foot forward: I nod. Not enough. “I will?” That does it.

“That-a girl,” he tells me, and lets me go.

I can hear Mum making her way up the stairs, breathing heavily. The walk didn’t do her as much good as I’d hoped, but we try not to mention the fact that they never do. It’ll be a few days minimum before we can get her out again, now that it’s never sunny. Seasonal affective disorder gone mad.

Another truth unspoken: the electric bill’s gone haywire in the last few months. Mum’s always got the lights and the heating on upstairs, and we’ve got them on in the kitchen. Can’t complain about it, because it depresses her. Don’t want to sit in the dark.

Damned Spot looks up from her bed, struggles upright and limps to me, looking for a cuddle. I give her one. Used to be, even a week ago, she’d have followed Mum up to bed and lain at her feet for her nap. Didn’t even try to come on our walk today. I get my fingers right where she likes them, behind her ears, set her tail to its long, easy wags.

“Good girl,” I tell her firmly. By the door, her food bowl is picked at and she’s unreceptive to my attempts to get her to eat.

“Probably needs the loo,” my dad says.

I head for the door. “Out, Damned Spot?” I say, because that’s what we always say, and maybe her ears perk up. Or I’m just seeing what I want to. Either way, we stumble our five-legged way outside, where we stand on the grass under the low, thick grey of the sky for one minute, two, five.

Damned Spot stares around, brown-eyed and unquestioning, and doesn’t do her business or anything else. Eventually, tips of my fingers beginning to get cold, we stumble our five-legged way back in.

“Ought to be shot,” says Grandpa. “Kindest thing for it.”

Dad whistles her over and she goes to him, slow and struggling. “She’s got a bit of life in her yet,” he says, leans over to give her a proper stroke and nearly unbalances her. “Don’t you, girl?”

I go over to the fridge, open it, then shut it again before the smell of the chicken can escape.

“Snack supper?” I say and Dad laughs.

Mum’s been on the Austen miniseries again, decides we’re watching the new Persuasion ‘as a family’. Grandpa sits in the armchair with his whiskey and sips silently, eyes fixed on the far wall. Heating hasn’t been on in the sitting room for weeks and the damp’s got into the sofa so I’m buried under a blanket.

“Put it away,” Mum hisses. It’s more alive than I’ve heard her in a minute. Scares me out of my skin, and I do my best to look like I’m paying attention.

But I’m not the one in trouble. Dad sighs and puts his phone on the arm of the sofa next to him. Grandpa, in his chair, hums and sips.

It’s not a very good film.

Ten or so minutes pass before Mum stands up.

“I’m going to bed,” she tells us, and then she’s gone.

Dad’s straight back on his phone. He pokes at it for a while until there’s no more footsteps above us.

“I’ll go check on the mutt,” he says. Then he, too, leaves.

I can hear his voice quietly in the kitchen, then the back door opens. A few minutes later it closes and quiet footsteps make their way upstairs. They’ll be in different rooms tonight, or she’ll kick up a fuss about him not finishing watching.

I sit and scroll until the credits roll, then turn off the TV. Grandpa’s asleep. His glass is empty on the side table next to him, and his glasses are half-way falling off his face.

I should wake him up, probably. Get him to go to bed.

I fold up the blanket and hang it over the sofa and turn off the lights before heading off to my room. Check my emails before I go to sleep. Delete the promotions and the subscriptions and the article, then turn off my phone and do my best to keep warm.

Maybe I’m still hungry, maybe I feel bad about leaving Grandpa down there, or maybe I just can’t sleep, but at four in the morning I wake up and go downstairs. I check in the sitting room, but he’s not in there, though his glass is. I pick it up and wander into the kitchen in search of a bowl of cereal. As soon as I turn the light on, I see her.

Damned Spot lies on the floor of the kitchen, wheezing harsh breaths in and out. A part of me knows that I should call my parents, that I should call the vet, but in the moment I just go to her and I sink to my knees and bury my hands in her fur.

“Good girl,” I tell her, as scared brown eyes meet mine. “Good dog. It’s alright.”

I stay there, stay slowly stroking her, as she goes still, spasms, goes still again.

“I want to bury her on the hill,” Mum insists, and so up we go while Dad carries Damned Spot, until we hit the cloud, just a bit lower than it was yesterday. Grandpa follows and his eyes watch everything.

“You know, we never buried our dogs,” he tells us, and I want to hit him or scream but I don’t do anything because we certainly never talk about the ways he’s awful in front of him or Mum.

Sam from the village is waiting up top with a digger by a freshly dug hole, only visible when we get close; he looms through cloud thick enough to make everything up here feel close and damp.

“Alright?” he says, sounding uncomfortable.

Dad thanks him, and Sam from the village nods before slowly driving back to the works over the road.

“I can’t bear it,” Mum informs us all, and staggers off by herself into the cloud.

That leaves Dad and me to lower her into the hole and push all the dirt on top, lay flat the grass turf, and shove in a stick to mark it.

“We should’ve brought a stone.”

“Should’ve had her cremated, really,” says Dad. “Much more efficient use of space. You know, they mix up all the ashes, scoop a bunch out and stick ‘em in a jar. ‘S not much point crying over a bunch of bits of other people’s pets.”

Grandpa’s standing off there in the mist, looking around as though thinking of all the places he’d rather be. “We never bothered with any of this, you know. Just told the vet to take it with them when he was done.”

Dad nudges me. “Maybe we should tell the doctor to do the same with him, hey?”

I don’t cry. I just stand there, as Grandpa goes wandering off. I’m glad for it, really. Glad he’s not saying anything else. I don’t think I could bear it.

There’s a moment where Dad and I stand around in the cloud, him silent and awkward and still waiting for me to cry or laugh, before he sighs and jerks his head. I step away and follow him, as we begin making our way after Mum.

She’s gone to the very top of the hill, where there’s a small trig point, just a bit of rock left to mark out the highest point, and is staring out into the endless, endlessly close fog.

“You know,” she says, and she sounds terribly far away. “I think I can see Wales.”

Dad takes her arm, guides her to lean on him, and the two begin to oh-so-slowly walk down the hill.

Grandpa touches my shoulder, and he won’t say it, but it is an apology. I keep my peace, and we follow them down.

They’re already in by the time we get there, boots on the rack, but nowhere to be seen.

“I’ll have a shower, I think,” Grandpa tells me and I’m ready for him to go upstairs but instead he follows me into the kitchen.

I watch him grab the washing-up liquid.

“Shower gel,” he says. Laughs, winks, and then he’s off with it in hand.

I stand there for a second. “What?”

But there’s only me in here now.

I never got that midnight snack, so I wander over to the fridge. Open it. The smell, unleashed, fills the room and I should shut the door and open the windows and put away Spot’s water bowl because she’ll not be needing it anymore and

I take the pack of chicken drumsticks out the fridge, slimy and discoloured and half-covered by a flapping lip of clear plastic that does nothing to stop the assault of their reek. And I put it on the counter and I leave it there to fill the whole room with its rot.

Here are the things that I’m going to do. I’m going to kick on the flip-flops by the door and I’m going to flip and flop my way outside and I will flip and flop my way all the way back up that hill. And I will lose a shoe three or four times; that’s inevitable. When I get there, I won’t be able to see Wales, but I will tell myself that up above me, amidst all the clouds, there’s a patch that’s a lighter shade of grey.

(By the time I come down, the chicken’s in the bin, uncovered, and the door to the kitchen’s shut. I can hear some nasally American accent coming from the sitting room, occasionally stuttering because the WiFi’s not so good in there. But that’s fine. I grab the bin bag and shove it — still open — into the hall.)
