We walk. All along the lowway, me in front and Little Fellow in the middle and Him somewhere in back. Slow progress, little steps for little legs, but still walking on. In the water, waist lanterns dancing white as we march. Everywhere, up on the drainways, ducking under the pipes, on the bridges crossing here down below. And once, tonight, another walker with their light-bright legs. Flash our lantern signs through the night - hello, goodbye, beware below, beware to walk. We cross when we see that one: up the ladders that moss and mist make sticky, to the first drainway, over the connector, then back to the lowways and the walking on.

Up in the city, yellow-gold up-above where the lights don’t dance, they turn yellow-dim then gone. The sky greys, and where the air can reach, skin pricks wet and suffers for it. Low water, say the city-lights in their fading. Low water and clear skies. But the water’s always low if you’re up there.

He pushes past Little Fellow and grabs at me when I turn around so I don’t have to hear him. “Stop,” he says, hands loud and clear. No nonsense hands. I-know-best hands. “Morning. Red sky. We go up.”

I shut my eyes. Feel Little Fellow put his hand in mine and turn, blind, walk on.

Only open them when I’m sure He’s behind me where I don’t have to listen. Keep going, past one tent up on the drainway on the other side. Little Fellow walks slow now. I’ve got his hand, pull him with me. Keep going till the thin little sky gets bloody on its chin.

That’s when his hand gets pulled out of mine. He’s got Little Fellow over his shoulder, is climbing up-and-up one hand then step-step then one hand then step-step.

“Stop!” I yell, arms jerking with it, but he’s the one not looking now. No point.

I get on the ladder, up after him. Up all the lowways, onto the drainways, but it's getting thick-air hot, skin beginning to prick and sting, goggles fogging and mask clogging and he pulls off the ladder well before we’re up past the floodline. Mumbles something, like he’s mouthspeaking behind his mask.

He leads a bit further, carrying Little Fellow, so I have to follow. It’s burning properly now. Not quite rash-deep but not so far off – worse for Little Fellow. He gets us to where Up’s been doing work on one of the drains.

“Climb,” he says. Order.

I climb up their scaffold to the platform just below the round of the great pipe where it sticks out from the squished bones of the old city. It’s hard – I’m a good climber, lifetime of climbing, keeping light. But it’s hard. Hot hard, sweat hard – new metal, not yet rust-rough to give something to stick to. Smooth, not slick. It’s not meant to be climbed, either. They come down to it, after all. But I get up there, because I have to. Reach down to take Little Fellow from him and pull him up next to me. He gets up after us, gets his tent out of his pack and pulls the trigger to pop it up. It’s a small tent, one-man tent, not nice and big like the one I left with ma. But Little Fellow and I can curl up on one side and He sticks on the other and doesn’t try to touch me. Still have ma’s knife, after all.

We get into the tent. Get the pump going. Sit as far away from him as we can get – not very far. I’ve got the cooker, ma’s cooker – trying not to worry about it – and the food, though we’re running low – trying not to worry about it, she’ll bring more when she finds us. Get two packs boiling while he gets his roll laid out. Split it three ways. Wish I didn’t, but it’s his tent. Them’s the rules, says ma, from wherever she is.

I get Little Fellow his comic from my pack. Let him sit and lean on the wall while I get our sleep-clothes out and bedding set up, get changed. He goes to sit next to him.

“What does that say?” he asks.

Little Fellow turns the page. Doesn’t like mouth-speaking, but He does it anyway.

“Come on, Darra,” he says. “How about that. T-H-R-O-U-G-H. What’s that spell?”

“Not his name,” I mouth-say.

He ignores me, but Little Fellow also ignores him, so we both know who’s right. I know what he’s thinking about: sneak away in the day, take Little Fellow. Leave me to chase after, just like ma. But I learned from her. I know to hold on tight enough that I’ll wake up if he tries.

Get him stripped and changed into sleep-soft fabric. Hang up our sweat-wet inners to dry over the day. The air’s blistered him a bit around his cheeks.

“Soothe,” I say, and reach behind me for him to give it over. Rub it into the sores even as he squirms and wiggles about.

“We have to stop earlier,” he says. “Aika –”

“Not my name.”

He sighs. “You’re hurting the lad.”

“Not your problem.”

“Yes it is.” He reaches past to take Little Fellow’s empty bowl, scrapes the rest of his food into it, and hands it back to him. “He’s my son, Aika – Eyecut. It falls to me to step in where you and your mother have fallen short.”

I rinse our dishes and pack them up, get us both curled up and facing away from him. Hear him get changed somewhere behind us. He won’t be looking so I can turn my head around and peek. Makes sense to me, why he had to pay ma for it. Back when I was as small as Little Fellow. He’s weird under the mask. Big blobby nose and pale eyes and no lips, burn-spotted skin. I wouldn’t fuck him even if he paid me. Maybe he wasn’t as ugly then.

The flood comes while we sleep. Up and up, while the rain pushes down and down, soaking sodden wood to saturation until all the world is grey and brown.

I’m half awake, have to be, have to hold on to Little Fellow. Doesn’t take much to make me all the way awake. Scramble over to ma, have to – except its not ma, but it doesn’t matter, not right now.

“Wha –” and then the rain turns his stupid face grey and brown. “Get everything packed! Now, Aika.”

Doesn’t have to tell me, because I’m already folding the cooker, getting our walkwear into the pack. No time for anything more than getting my arm through the straps of our masks, wrapping Little Fellow up in his outer. Can’t stop to change. Get out into the wet. Wet, wet everywhere – no need to guess what they were doing to the pipe, because water’s pouring out from around it, some crack buried deep in the old-brick mire. Not on top of us, but the metal’s death-smooth where we’ll have to climb down. The tent pops down and I grab it, grab Little Fellow – stupid, stupid, I know it’s stupid – start trying to climb, no arms, just legs. He’s gripping on to me, but then the thunder goes above and he flinches and I slip and I have to choose so I choose and the tent goes down, bounces. Bounces again. Down and along until it’s gone-gone and no way to get it back. We might follow, still, feet scrabbling, can’t get a grip on the metal, but there’s a hand on my collar, choking tight, but it pulls us back up onto the wood on top of the scaffold.

“What the fuck are you doing?” he shouts at me, over the screaming of the water forcing its way out of the wall. “What the fuck have you – fuck!”

I can’t get breath in, air keeps catching on the inside of my mouth. No burn, just thick and sticky and won’t get any further down my throat. Can’t let go of Little Fellow, can’t sign, can’t – can’t – but he drags him out of my hands anyway.

“Climb!” he orders, points one-armed up at the pipe. I don’t move. “Do it, you stupid girl. Now!”

I get my arm on the lip, pull myself into its mouth. He gets Little Fellow up behind me before following. The rain’s so loud all around us, echoing and banging and the thunder goes again, rattles all around this metal maw, but he’s still pointing upwards, so I go.
