Gilbert is Dead

Murder, squawk the geese, the rooster, the rooks in parliament, who saw it all go down (and then, presumably, back up again). Murder most fowl. Mangled by tyres; by the fox who’s had a go at him; by the same tyres hitting him a second time. The same tread, you see. Two different tracks. And I, innocence proven by the fact that I do not have a car, stop halfway down the drive. I kneel by the corpse. I will play detective and mourner and mortuary, since Gilbert is dead.

It falls to me to place the body in a box that will serve as coffin and hearse. He was mostly feathers in life, feathers and lustful rage. Stripped of both, he is rendered eminently manageable. It does not hurt that he is down a leg, bottom half gnawed away. Herself’s camera whirls to follow me as I bring the coffin through the morning-empty yard.

Himself is in his kitchen when I carry my burden around. Sat in his chair like it's a throne, one beslippered foot propped atop another. Herself, meanwhile, is amusing Herself at the kettle. It is not a particularly involved task, the pressing of a button. But it is hers; she takes to it with all the pomp and bureaucracy of the civil servant she no longer is.

“Oh,” she says. “Did you get your A-levels? Results today, aren’t they?”

“Gilbert is dead,” I tell them. There is no point softening it.

Herself wheezes in as though she has been twice run over herself, and then eaten by a fox. Himself sets down his iPad.

“Is he in there?” he asks.

I nod, and show him the contents of the box.

“Who could have done this?” she asks. Beside her, the kettle begins to boil before turning itself off. “I spoke to Hansen about getting a Mabel replacement only this morning!”

“A fox,” I say.

“Our Gilbert wouldn’t have fallen prey to a fox,” Himself declares. His slippered foot twitches atop his knee.

“Certainly not,” Herself concurs. “Perhaps the cat?”

The cat, halfway out the metaphorical door, rarely steps through the material one. And besides, “He was a turkey,” I remind Themselves. “Big. I can look into it if you want, but –”

“Oh, what a good idea,” Himself says.

“Yes – if someone is killing our animals, we must get to the bottom of it. Our duty of care.”

I stand there for a little longer, holding the box. “Would you like me to leave him here?”

“No –” “-- yes” “Well –”

I set the box down by the door, and back away. Their King Charles spaniel looks as though he’s about to have a sniff, but I push him back inside and make my way to the yard.

“Gilbert is dead,” I tell Tommo, who’s just arrived. “Hit by a car.”

“Wasn’t me,” he says, immediately.

“I won’t tell if it was.”

I truly won’t. Tommo has committed no unforgivable sin, save for the unfortunate fact that he’s rather attractive. And also that he could have gone to uni, his mother being both educated and somewhat wealthy, and chose for whatever reason to spend his life running a mad woman’s hobby farm.

“Still wasn’t me. Maybe it was Mabel’s ghost?” He grins. “Scorned her in life, eh, now she’s back?”

“It was a car and a fox.”

That gets him to stop fiddling about in the back of his van.

“Another bloody fox? What’d you do with the rest of him?”

“Don’t know what else would’ve eaten him. And he’s by the kitchen. Why?”

“String him up to bait that fox tonight, that’s for why.”

I grimace. “Himself won’t like that.”

Tommo shrugs. And then he sets himself to rummaging. He’s an excellent rummager, spends most of every day at it, vehicle large enough that he might rummage at his leisure with all the appearance of diligence.

But the thing with vans – or at least with this van, I claim no broader expertise – is that it has wide tyres. Wider than the tread of whatever hit Gilbert twice over, which did not strike me (or him), as being of unusual dimension. While his back is turned, I angle myself to get a better view of how much of their surface is in contact with the ground. Too much.

“What was their friend called, the one who was about over the weekend?”

“How should I know?” says Tommo.

I usually don’t work on the weekends. But this Saturday, I was called in by none other than Herself to go for a ‘spin’ in their friend’s convertible Audi. Now, why someone would have a convertible in the wet South West is beyond me, nor can I explain what made her decide that it would be an experience so life-changing that I had to give up my afternoon, but the summons was sent and, faithfully, I obeyed.

The ride was unremarkable; I will remark no more upon it. The car itself, however. It was no doubt expensive, but I cannot think of a number that could hope to capture the value it seemed to hold for our poor, dead Gilbert.

I cannot claim him to have been deprived, even after Mabel left him – and the rest of us – for a fox’s tender embrace. She had never been of much interest to him, not while there were slippers, towels, and roosters in the world. And those things persisted, even when she did not. But the Audi – my god, the Audi. You see, mornings (as far as any of us could tell) on the farm usually featured Gilbert in the kitchen, perched atop Himself’s slipper. Himself would be playing chess on his iPad and Gilbert would be… rustling. An odd way of going about things, but we must allow for oddities in this life. Bad for the planned industrial sale of Christmas turkeys, slippers being reproductively incompatible with poultry, but that was Herself’s to concern Herself with.

And then, we must presume, Gilbert saw the Audi. With its canvas top and shiny paint, not even a little mud splattered. And Gilbert loved the Audi. Passionately. Furiously. Extensively and expensively. I bore witness to it on Saturday. We got out of the car and he got on it, and he went for a ride rather more satisfying than our own.

Birds will be birds, Himself said (as I recall) and laughed.

Hm, Herself said, and she certainly did not sound happy.

“Do you have access to the camera?” I ask Tommo. I don’t, because I am not Our Lady’s beloved surrogate son.

“Sure,” he says, and fiddles about on his phone before handing it to me and going back to rummaging.

I watch through Saturday evening, watch Gilbert settle himself to sleep atop his beloved. Sunday – the car remains beturkeyed through much of the day, with a brief appearance from two of the geese in a failed territory grab. Given that their friend is clearly gone this morning, and there is no car here, I had assumed that he’d driven off in it, but instead a taxi arrives and he leaves therein. Gilbert gives a brief, futile chase up the drive and out of sight before reappearing. He sits himself back atop his love and settles himself down to roost.

Nothing triggers the camera until this morning. Not Himself wandering into the yard to fetch wood, not the dog emptying itself, nothing. Certainly no car leaving.

The next thing it catches is me coming down, Gilbert in box. And there is no Audi in the yard.

I head back to the kitchen.

The box is gone, as is Himself. Herself is still standing by the kettle, her head bowed as she waits for it to boil.

“A fox killed him,” I say. “Tommo says he’ll set bait up tonight.”

“Oh,” is all she says.

“When will the new turkeys be arriving?” I ask. I’m still holding Tommo’s phone and she looks at it as she turns around.

“Hansen says he has some chicks in. I’ll pick them up tomorrow, if you could set up the stable.”

“Of course.”

“You’ll tell the others, won’t you?”

“If they ask, I’ll tell them a fox did it. That’s the truth, isn’t it?”

There is steam coming up from the kettle behind her. Once again, it turns itself off.

“We’re having to pay to repaint David’s car,” she says. “He wouldn’t come back if the turkey was – if – and that damn bird was always in here. With my husband.”

I don’t say anything.

“Anyway, like you said. A fox did it.”

“Quite so,” I say. “Oh, I was going to tell you, but I got distracted by the whole Gilbert thing. I made my grades for UCL. Economics.”

“Well done!” she says.

“I’m not sure if I’ll take it.” I wander in, shutting the door behind me. “I’d like to. But the cost of living, well –”

“I see,” she says.
