They haven’t stopped shouting for three days, that rushing, rising mass of people pressing in at the walls of the stacks. They’re not there for the prisoners being shipped out today – petty criminals all, the real dregs of old Jovia. Not the sort of bastards worth causing trouble over. Now, Morrow doesn’t like to think of himself as a shining example of what Keth can be, but there’s something real nice and humbling about finding himself here among this company.

Out by the final gate, he can finally make out what the crowd has been saying.

“Udak adeekethe!”

The man leading the call has a good voice for it, even with the metallic edge of cheap amplification. Loud enough that even in the innermost stack, the outline of his words can still be felt in the shaking of the walls.

The response is unboosted, slurred at the edges by a crowd where only some of them know what the sounds they’re making even mean. “Adeeke de sodai ke!”

Nathan, cuffed to Morrow at the back of the column, takes a moment to lean in while the guards are distracted fitting masks on the men in front.

“What’s it mean?” he asks.

Morrow forgets, sometimes, that Nathan’s not Keth. Sure, he doesn’t look like it. He’s a head taller than anyone else in the lineup, pink cheeked and frail boned. But he moves like one. Weight low, shoulders hard. But no Keth would ever admit that they don’t know Kesh. Even if they don’t.

Morrow tilts his head to listen more closely to the chant.

“‘They’re taking our people’,” he says. The response is harder to parse. “What will –” no, not that. “‘Why won’t we fight now?’ Something like that.”

“You think they’ll still ship –”

He’s cut off as the guards get to them and strap ill fitting masks to their faces. There are too many eyes on them to talk. Nathan’s a line of tension next to him as they follow the men in front of them onto a transport bus. The guards sit them down next to each other at the back of the bus, attaching the chain connecting their wrists to bolts on the floor between their legs.

“Everyone on?” calls one of the guards.

Another flashes him a thumbs up, and the back door is swung closed and sealed.

There’s a moment of silence in the dark, the shuffling of bodies trying to fit themselves to their seats. Then the engine hums to life beneath and the strip lights come on and they all go still.

Morrow can tell exactly when they pass through the seal out onto Jovia proper. The bus judders, stops and starts, the voices rise up – not chanting anymore, just screaming wordlessly, slamming their hands against the metal.

They grind forward another foot, pressing through the unseen crowd. There’s the rough shouting of the guards, cries of pain from outside.

“Udak adeekethe!”

So clear and loud that it could only have come from inside the bus. Impossible to tell which of the masked, formless figures in the rows in front said it. It takes him a half second to remember the response.

“Adeeke de sodai ke!”

He’s not the only one who says it. Two other voices, all out of time with each other. But the first man calls out again, and they reply in sync, and this time they’re not the only ones. Morrow’s the closest to the guard at the back who drives his fist into his stomach. He gasps, winded, but Nathan takes up the response for him, the Kesh awkward in his mouth. Slams his boot against the floor in time, yanking Morrow’s ankle with him.

“Silence!” says the guard.

Morrow’s got his breath back, though, so when the call comes again, he joins in. They’re all stomping, all hitting the walls, and when they go again, he can hear some of the crowd outside shouting back.

The guard with them hits Morrow again, storming down the aisle towards the front with his baton, laying into the men on either side. But the crowd’s got their balance now. Doesn’t matter if one man or another can’t shout for a blow to the head, the sound is inescapable.

“Get us moving!” yells the guard, kicking the front of the compartment. For a second, there’s no response, and then they’re moving forward, crunching over something with a squeal of the suspension. They don’t stop. Someone screams outside, then others join in. No chanting out there, just panic. The guard grabs someone at the front, smacks his baton into the side of his head over and over until he goes limp, even as the man next to him kicks at his body armour. That gets him a punch to the throat.

“I said, shut the fuck up!” He keeps screaming it, even as they keep going with the chant. The partition opens and two men climb in from the front, and then there are three of them, sending blow after blow into the prisoners. Batons meeting throats, stomachs, heads. Morrow kicks at the groin of the man who makes his way back to him, tries to get as much of himself between them and Nathan as possible. But the guard thumbs the switch on the hilt, sends current seizing through him, leaving him twitching and stupid. There’s nothing he can do to guard either of them from the strikes that land along their sides and backs. No chance of chanting now, all his mouth is good for is silent, spasming gasps, as they thud the baton into him again and again and again.

Everyone’s quiet as they finally stand back from the beaten men. Morrow can’t move. Just hangs limp, mouth open as he gasps for air. The fucker who hit them, his mask’s slipped a bit. He’s got a sheen to his brown skin. Not sweat. Then he gets it back in place and straightens up. Same height as the other two. Same height as Morrow.

He tries to fling himself at them, but nothing in him listens. All he achieves is tipping himself off balance, flopping forward and out of his seat. Nathan does his best to pull him back up.

“Don’t,” he says.

The guard comes to stand over them. “Sit.”

He’s faceless through the smoked glass, breath wheezing through the air pipe.

“He’ll behave,” says Nathan. He’s got Morrow by the wrist where they’re joined, squeezing it tightly.

And it doesn’t even matter. Because the other guard smacks him in the head hard enough that he loses a few seconds. When the world comes back, two of them are pinning him to the seat while the other locks cuffs around his ankles, loops them into the hook. They smash another hit into his ribs before they walk away.

Morrow leans his head against the back of the chair, drooling a bit under the mask. No one’s talking anymore, no one’s moving. One of the guards goes back through the partition to the front, slides it shut behind him. The others take up posts at the front and the back. Hands on their batons.

Eventually they turn off from platform flatness onto a ramp.
