“We are?”
My hands are wrapped around something smooth and warm. I rub my thumb over it until I find a tiny divot – too small to dream. But there. Real.
I open my eyes. She’s kneeling in front of me. She leans in, clasping her hands around mine on the mug.
Steam dampens my chin.
She smiles. “That we are.”
I want to touch her cheek, but I don’t want to break contact. I lean forward instead and bump our foreheads before retreating.
“That was a long one,” she says. “North again?”
I shake my head and stand, my legs protesting the movement. She’s unsteady too. “Were you here the whole time?”
“Only after I got you tea,” she says.
It’s hot enough to itch at my palms – she can’t have been kneeling for long.
“We’ll have guests soon.”
“Your soon or my soon?” she asks.
I consider the dream. Father Sun sets behind one eye, while Mother Sun rises behind the other. “Now.”
“Drink your tea,” she says.
I’m still holding the mug, I realize – haven’t dropped it or drunk from it or – she taps the rim.
“Drink.”
I sip. In the dream it was mint. This is the first of the verbena – it tastes of its planting and plucking and dying and drying, but mostly of lemon. “It’s good.”
“Guests?” she prompts.
“For me,” I say. I open the door to the sharp sunlight. We stand in our little corner of desert-edge. As I look south, I see a ship carving around the dunes, no doubt to the port at Landsmeet. She’s looking at it too.
She doesn’t see our guests, though I do. Sixty degrees of Father Sun’s descent, trekking to the first green. Half a season, the way everdark Rest counts it. The heat. The sand. The woman in front: unknown, armed, angry. Thief, purrs the dream. The blurred lines of time and place, as I-we-he followed-will have followed him-her. Them and us, them and –
She presses her fingers into my pulse point. Sharp. Not quite painful, but enough to drag me back from then and into now. Our guests are here. Two men, not two women; not us. Thin and ragged, with more journeying to come.
“Which of you is the prophet?” the lordling asks. He could be any dusty wanderer, except for the faintly glowing oath burned into his arm. It curls around his bicep, calls him here and calls him back the way he came.
She lets me step forward. “It’s already too late,” I tell them. “That’s no bad thing.”
The lordling’s lips twist. “It’s not.”
I sigh. “He already has an oracle to ignore; why bother a prophet? But fine, here is your answer: he pulls the trap shut around himself. Cryptic enough?” I can’t keep the amused crinkle from my eyes. How I have missed riddling.
“I swore I’d find you,” he says. Holds out his arm. “No one in the capital has any answers; my father said  ”
“This is what I know: by the time you return, you will have a new king. There is nothing I can tell you that would change that.”
She stiffens. No harm in it, though. There really is nothing they can do; I wouldn’t have dreamed it otherwise.
“I promised I’d bring you back. for the sake of your people, won’t you –”
“Not our people,” she says. Measured. She’s watching his companion, who stands behind him with the sharpness of a knife.
Perhaps she’s right. It doesn’t matter, anyway. I shake my head. “Come. Let us shelter you from the sun.”
“No swords.” She tightens her grip.
The lordling obeys. So does the other one, though I’ve no doubt he still has edges that can cut. And then she lets them inside.
“It must be strange,” he says. “It’s so – primitive.” He looks like he regrets the last word even as he says it.
“The light is gentler here.” I widen the gap in the shutters to allow a little more in, as she helps them offload their packs.
“But you’ve no power, no –”
“No sewers,” she says. “There’s a hut out back.”
She sits them down and pours them cups of whey.
“No water treatment either?” asks the knife. The first thing he’s said, edged with humour.
She scoff-laughs.
The boy sips and bravely doesn’t make a face. “We won’t force you. But –”
	“No,” she says.
He means it, is the thing.
“But you’d have hot showers and lights and –”
I cross over to join them. “Every luxury. But no. We are happy here.”
She relaxes. I do mean it. She should know that. I won’t leave here until the time for dreams is done, and when I do, we won’t be going south.
We feed them, and let them take the bed. I make her up a nest on the ground, but don’t join her. I don’t want to go too deep into dream right now. I go to watch the sand, set to orange by the sun – only a handful of degrees until Sunswap, now.
The knife is behind me, though he thinks I haven’t noticed.
“Did we know each other?” I ask. I watch their journey back, I watch his little lord arrive  alone.
“I was Aisker’s man when he hosted you at Dawnwatch.”
“Hm.” I wonder what he thinks now, if he still sees the half-sane creature I was then before she plucked me away to this place where I am more woman than dream. “And why are you here?”
“To protect his son.”
I say nothing.
“He wants you back.”
There’s the cutting edge, then. “Are you going to drag me back across the desert?” I ask. He could try, I suppose, though it surely won’t end happily.
“I’m meant to,” he says. “She’s the one who stole you?”
“If I am my own, then I give myself to her,” I say.
He leans on the balcony next to me. “If you’re right, I’m not sure anyone will care if I bring you back or not.”
“On this, I am.”
Now he’s silent, but I have the advantage – I know he’s about to speak.
“I’m glad you’ve found this,” he says.
His decision sets, and the dream sets with it. I dig a nail into a small crack in the wood. “If you were wise, you’d head north.” Pointless, I know.
“Does he make it home?”
“If you’re with him.”
“Then I’ll go with him.”
If I did want to go with them, to go back, would she let me? Would she follow? I won’t ask.
They do stay till Sunswap in the end. Even follow us up to Landsmeet. I watch them, as Father Sun reddens one horizon and Mother Sun pinks the other. It’s their first time meeting people who aren’t from Rest and aren’t sailors, and it’s been a long time since Dawnwatch was a port.
It seems to delight them. Music that still sounds otherworldly to me, even after half a lifetime of hearing it. The nomads’ curd cheeses, their whey brew that burns the throat and leaves the little lord asleep well before the green flash. It’s a shame – his only chance to see it. When it comes, it makes his companion jump, which makes me laugh into her neck. Even she smiles a bit. One sun sinks beneath the horizon, the other starts its climb.
They come to me one more time before they leave.
“No,” I tell them, before they can start.
“My father –” begins the lordling.
“Has nothing to offer me,” I tell him. “I have given him enough.” I shake my head, then look at his knife. “You could still go north.”
“You could still go south,” he says, and smiles. It’s freer now than the half-thing that he arrived with.
“No.” She says it with me.
The little lord looks like he wants to say something, but instead turns away. His oath sears itself into his flesh. Unfulfilled, it brands him with his choice.
They leave. The lordling to home, his knife to whatever happens to keep him from that home.
She leans against me, and I press a kiss to the side of her head.
“We’ll be done with the dream,” I tell her. “And we’ll go north to the end of the world where the suns go in circles around the horizon and people will think we’re mad when we tell them of the desert.”
“When?” she asks.
“Soon.”
“Your soon, or mine?”
I look South. Not hers, that’s for sure. The dream still twists through its turns. But it’ll be sooner than suits the man who I see stumbling alone into his father’s hall, even as he starts the journey that will bring him there. But that’s alright – it’s a far-off thing now. Our part is done.
“Something in between, I think.” I smile at her. “Time enough for a few more dreams.”
“Hm. I’ll put the kettle on.”
I follow her inside.
