I got as far as Norway. The first plane out of Newark in the right direction took me to Oslo, which was at least closer to Finland than New York. Perhaps there was some greater hand steering my purpose, that saw the sleeper train up to Trondheim still running on Christmas Eve. Every inch fought northward was a battle, but one the universe seemed to want me to win. Until it didn’t.

We got past Lillehammer before everything ground to a halt. We had a cabin to ourselves, me lying there uselessly with the oxygen tank on the floor next to my bed and Arnie on the top bunk listening to me wheeze away. Good reason to raise hopeless children – if they never manage to find someone willing to marry them, they can follow you north to watch you die.

He swung himself off the bunk and opened the blind. I pushed myself up on my elbows so I could see out – nothing. The odd juddering lantern light, white on the white of the snow, as the staff rushed back and forth along the length of the stopped train.

"The heating's still on," said Arnie, hand over the vent. "Can't be anything too wrong."

He shifted his weight from foot to foot, still standing by the little sink looking out the window.

I wheezed at him for lack of any other response.

"Should I go ask what's going on?" he asked.

"What's that going to help?"

"They could tell us when we'll be moving again?"

High rising terminal. Again. Useless boy. But there was no point in him being here.

"Go on then," I said.

He dithered for a moment, fiddling with the settings on the heating until I waved him away.

“Go.”

I lay back as the door slid open then closed again.

Was that my breathing, or the wind? Both.

Of course he’d come early.

Had he been up there since the train stopped, or had he only arrived once Arnie left? Didn't matter much. He slid his legs over the edge, just like Arnie had done, and down off the bunk. In green, now, wrapped in furs the colour of the forest I caught the edge of as we landed. Smelled like pine and snow and something raw and mammalian. Primitive. Outside, one of the lanterns caught its light on the window, capturing a black-and-white moment of all that picture imperfect snow, and there in front of it: him. His hat. That marketing-ready red that I’d put on him.

"I was going after you," I said.

He leaned over me, staring. I knew what he saw. Withered. Collapsed inward by the long years since I created him out of the bastardized pieces of a million myths and set him on the world to ruin me – career, marriage, et al. He, of course, hadn't aged; he was as old as he'd always been. A polite fiction that mocked the ravages of time.

"I was going to kill you,” I told him. “But the Norwegians, god, what a stupid, smug people. Wouldn’t sell me a gun. Thought the Finns might be more helpful.”

He wheezed at me, slow and mocking. It wasn’t quite like my breathing, more like the wind as it sucked itself in between and under the carriages of the train. And like the snow, the white ball at the end of his hat fell limply on my shoulder and I didn't mean to do it, God, but I flinched away and he wheezed again. He leaned down and placed his teeth around my throat, pinning me down like a dog proving dominance. They were cold and animal sharp and pressed into every juddering breath I took, but he didn't bite down. I felt a tremor start somewhere in me, until I was all shaking, and still he didn’t bite down. After a long minute, he pulled back and stared down at me.

Oh, god, how he hated me. What a thing to be hated by.

"Do it, then, you bastard. Kill me. I had reindeer for dinner last night. Dry and bland, and I ate every single bite."

He reached out with one calloused, cold-burned finger, and sketched a cross on my mouth below the cannula. It left a trail of something wet and, when I licked my lips, familiarly sweet.

"Don't you dare," I said. He turned to go, and I flung myself out of the bunk, hit the ground, tubes yanking but holding. "I don't need your forgiveness," I tried to shout, though I'd knocked the air out of myself so there was no force behind it. "I don’t forgive you! You’ve had my life, you bastard, you don’t get the high ground here. Kill me or I’ll kill you!"

That got him to stop. There was red bleeding from his hat, dripping down the hollows of his cheeks and pooling on his shoulders. He swelled as I looked at him, filling out the furs even as they hardened into unbroken, velvet red.

Year after year after year, drawing him into being until we were both two bitter old men with smiles painted on our faces.

"Wasn’t even my idea," I said. "I just made you famous. Should be thanking me. I’ll find your fucking wife, how’s that for turnabout?"

He reached behind him, and then set something at the foot of the bed before walking out and leaving me there on the floor. I didn’t try to follow; the chase had escaped me. Heaved myself back onto my bed and readjusted the oxygen before I needed to take a moment to feel dizzy. Then I opened the box he left and took the bottle out and let it fall from my hand against the metal of the frame, let it shatter and spill.

Haven’t seen a glass one for years. But it's been a long time since I've had a Coke.

***

When he opens the door to the cabin, the air tastes of the sticky-sweet of spilled soda. Then he spots the bits of broken glass, the bottom of the bottle and the top and the scattered pieces of the middle and he rushes in. Finally, finally, he sees his pop. Lying there, arm hanging off the bed like he's pointing to where it's fallen.

"Dad?" he asks, and picks his way over to him.

Nothing. Too much nothing, just the faint hissing of the heating still fighting the hold of the endless snow, almost drowned out by the much louder sibilance of the wind, and the occasional shout from outside. And then the oxygen tank gets to screaming at him and he blinks at it stupidly before the leaflets from the doctor overtake his brain.

He grabs him by his shoulder and rolls him onto his back. He goes limply, the cannula crooked in his nose, his eyes open and staring. No pulse.

Here’s a thing: he knows, in theory, how to do CPR. Staying alive, staying alive, press his lips to the old bastard’s shrivelled slugs and see if it takes.

But he doesn’t want to. Too much of him feels like he can finally breathe, he doesn’t want to share that air with anyone right now. So instead he slides those glassy peepers shut. It’s squishier than it looks in the movies, and he's not sure why he does it, other than that it's a thing one probably ought to do. Then he turns off the machine.

All of a sudden, he feels profoundly orphaned, more than he thought he would. He’ll have to find a way back to Oslo, book a flight home, ring his sister and mother to give them the news, even if they haven’t spoken to the old man in decades.

He spots a small box at the foot of the bed. Shiny and red, with a green bow stuck on the lid. He picks it up, and turns it about in his hands. Nothing – empty, no note tucked inside. That earns a frown. Maybe the train staff, bringing a drink around to apologize for the delay? But surely he’d have caught them at it as he was going up and down the train.

He puts it down, and crosses to the still uncovered window. His foot sticks briefly in the drying drink, still slowly staining the carpet as it spreads. It's perfectly dark, though his brief foray outside told him that it's still snowing. He goes to pull the blind down, to give the old man the semblance of privacy before he goes to find someone who looks like they probably ought to be informed that there's a – that – what has happened.

And then, in the brief swinging of a lantern as one of the engineers makes their way towards the front of the train, he sees a man out in the distance.

All in red, standing at the edge of the light, looking towards the train. He falls back into shadow for a second and Arnie blinks, not sure if he’s seeing things. The lamp catches him again. He’s in dark green now, though he’s holding something red. Small and limp, with bits of white. He drops it in the snow before the engineer passes him completely, and though Arnie squints, there’s no way to tell which shadow could be him.
