[Titan, 3713]

She was sweating inside the pressure suit by the time she finished edging her way up the steep hill. Saturn hung overhead, blurred orange by the same atmosphere that had been dragging at her all day. But now she had a moment to catch her breath. She couldn’t see the start of the long descent to Launchpad 23, but the smooth ice of the flat was a far more welcoming prospect than the uneven climb behind her.

She retracted the microspikes along the inside edges of her skis. Nineteen meters per second to fully clear the descent. More than twenty-two and she would risk breaking her leg when the ground flattened out again.

[Interstellar Vessel Flander’s Field, 3822. 27 years of voyage remaining.]

“I was born on Saturn,” the old man tells me. It’s not the first time he’s said it.

He wasn’t old when we boarded, but now he is. Never married, though no one on board ever seemed interested. I’ve never asked why he decided to take the pilgrimage path – perhaps I should have. But I can guess.

“I know,” I say.

“I was the last,” he says, which is also not new. “Everyone dying, and there I was. A baby.” He says it like even he doesn’t believe it. Not really.

“So you’ve said.”

“I was the last,” he repeats.

The doorchime sounds and I open it to let the doctor in. I step out while he does his tests. Take a piss.

He joins me in the corridor after twenty minutes. “You’ll stay with him tonight?” he asks.

“I can,” I say. “Is –”

He shakes his head. “He’s leaving more gently than he came in. You stay with him.”

[L5 Tethys, 3717]

“A word?”

“Maria Callins,” his aide whispered through his earpiece. “Water extraction on Enceladus.”

“M. Callins,” he said.

“Our contract has a buyout clause,” she said, still sitting at the otherwise empty table. No doubt a legacy of burned old earth, back when extraction rights out here were a far lower margin enterprise.

“You’re enforcing it?” he asked.

He’d shown her and the rest of the ‘concerned parties’ the charts. 31.6% of the going rate, under the current contract. All for an operation that had paled beside its sister on Jupiter. In all of their interests, he’d said.

“We’ve upheld our end of the compact. A little consideration would go a long way.” She didn’t smile. She was low-gravity long – shaped by whatever frigid moon gave birth to her.

“We’re freeing you from sales at under a third of what the market would buy your water for,” he said.

“You’re ending a commercial relationship we have taken great pride in maintaining for generations.”

He sat down at the table opposite her, pulling up the chart on the projector again. “Again, this is in all our –”

“And what is your plan for extracting however many bodies you’ve got left down there? We’re all citizens of humanity,” she said, blandly. “I’m a mother, you know?”

There was silence through his earpiece for a second, then, “Maripuso Iceworks. Her daughter married the son last year. Between them, they’re 79% of Saturn-system water production.”

“We’re abiding by our contractual obligations to everyone involved in our proprietary labour solution.”

“You do still have some workers left, don’t you? Because if you’re terminating with us, why, I couldn’t imagine how you’re keeping them hydrated. I know you’re not working with the competi –”

“Fine,” he said.

[Titan, 3713]

Breathing steadied, she shifted her weight forward and pushed into the skate, driving from leg to leg as speed gathered under her. Three meters per second. Five. Eight. Ten. Halfway to the slope now, the ice blurring smooth in the low light. Twelve. Fifteen.

She pushed harder, snapping one ski up before the edge could catch and throw her sideways. Eighteen. Nineteen point three five.

[Interstellar Vessel Flander’s Field, 3801. 48 years of voyage remaining.]

“Don’t stare,” my mother tells me.

“Are you an alien?” I ask, before she can tell me not to.

He’s got two sets of eyelids, the extra one flickering shut as he turns to look into our lit cabin. Doesn’t look human, not even moon-human, long and skinny and always sick. Not like me.

“We’re all aliens,” he says. “Or have you ever been to earth?” He’s smiling when he says it, so he can’t be too upset, but his skin’s shiny like no one I’ve ever seen before.

I shake my head. He’s got an accent that I’ve never heard before, and I used to spend every evening helping my mother out on the docking ports back home. I’ve heard lots of accents.

“I’m from Saturn,” he says. “That’s why I look like this.”

That doesn’t make sense. “I’m from Saturn too,” I say. “We used to live on Enceladus, before –”

“Enough,” my mother says, and pulls me into the cabin, shutting the door.

[Villa Callins, 3713]

Her mother stopped her as she made for bed.

“The shif are closing up shop.”

The words offered up no meaning. Could be some mooner slang from her mother’s youth, could be some corporate acronym she’d just invented. Either way, best to play along. “OK?” she said.

“No more hydrogen extraction. Not here.” Said nice and patronisingly.

“Oh no?” She tried to sidle past her to get to the hallway.

“It puts us in a tricky position – Safia. You could pretend to listen.”

She nodded. “I’m listening. I’m just kind of tired, so – what about – there’s people down there, still, right?”

“They’ll sort them out. What matters is that it further pushes us into an economic corner," her mother said. “And boosts Jupiter even more.”

“Mmhmm,” she said.

“You know Alain Maripuso, don’t you?”

“Sure, I guess. I haven’t spoken to him in ages though.”

“See if he can convince his father to come to stay here. Or in the house on Titan. Say you’ll teach him to ski, or some such.”

“Ok, but Pontmercy hates you, so –”

“So nothing. He benefits just as much as I do from presenting a united front.”

Ah.

But her next race was in under a month, and it would be so very helpful to be down on Titan. “Sure, I’ll get in touch.”

[Callisto, 3800]

“The news this evening: an SPTA team have confirmed that the ‘last man on Saturn’, Callun Connel, has died. Connel, 63, was born on Banach Station in orbit around Jupiter. He was ‘deeply moved’ by news reports from Saturn as a young man, and moved there in 3782, taking the name Zurtir F-1. The SPTA have announced that they will no longer be maintaining the platform on which Connel lived, alongside the few remnants of the mining community.”

[Titan, 3713]

The ridge fell away beneath her. The suit sensed the break and opened wings along her arms and back.

One meter above the ground. Two.

She tilted forward to maintain the arc, thumb hovering over the button for the automated assist. Two-thirds down.

Just beginning to dip below two meters.

She held the angle.

[Callisto, 3726]

“Thirteen years after the Strategic Hydrogen Investment Fund cut shipments to its Saturn hydrogen platforms, the first crewed flights to the atmospheric mining operation since its inception have returned.

“The operation was founded nearly a thousand years ago with a seed population of seven thousand. In late 3713, SHIF records allege their descendants numbered close to half a million.

“Recovery teams have confirmed four hundred and nineteen survivors.

“Yesterday, the unauthorized release of footage taken by the recovery teams has renewed pressure on the Solar Planetary Trade Association to place the Jovian works under direct administration.

“Joining me is Ataraiz M-19, recovered from Saturn with her newborn son, Jatza. Ataraiz, thank you for being here.”

“Hello.”

“And this is your son?”

“Yes.”

“Jatza, is that right?”

“Yes.”

“He is the youngest survivor of the Saturn operation.”

“Yes.”

“You were discharged from hospital only last week. Are you both receiving continuing care?”

“Yes. Jatza still sick. Too thin.”

“There are growing calls now for the SPTA to suspend or revoke SHIF’s remaining hydrogen rights around Jupiter. Have you been following that debate?”

“Don’t know.”

“Of course. Three survivors have reportedly chosen to remain living on one of the mining platforms. What are your thoughts?”

“Is home. I would too, but Jatza.”

“Do you think the Authority has an obligation to maintain the zone for them, despite the cost?”

“Don’t know.”

“Thank you, Ataraiz.”
